Welcome back to Google
Developers Weekly
for January 21, 2014, our first
weekly wrap-up for the year.
I'm Louis Gray, and
this our highlight reel
of what's happening in the
world of Google Developers,
on the set and off.
Team Chrome started
2014 off with a bang,
launching a great new
course on mobile web
development with Udacity.
Instructors Chris Wilson, Sean
Bennett, and Peter Lubbers
join Udacity CEO Sebastian
Thrun in a special GDL event,
kicking off the course
to help you transform
your traditional
desktop focus web
apps into fast, effective,
mobile experiences.
You can sign up at
udacity.com/course/cs256.
In fact, the course
is so fast paced,
the first study group
has already taken place.
Good news, though.
We recorded it and you
can catch up on GDL.
The instructors took
Q&A and offered help
on the course material.
The world has gone mobile, and
it's time your software did.
Last March, Google introduced
Blink, a new rendering
engine for the Chromium project.
Paul Irish hosted Eric Seidel,
an engineer working on Blink,
to bring us up to date.
Eric covered
architectural improvements
Chrome is making to the
Blink code base, focus
on performance, and
some audacious ideas.
If you love the web,
you'll love this update.
And a lot has happened in
the world of Enterprise Maps.
Dylan Thomas joined
us in the GDL studio
to tell us what's new,
including Google Maps Engine API
updates, image referencing,
and symbology improvements,
as well as an update
to the Places API auto
complete, and a brand new
Enterprise Maps app on Android.
The YouTube developers
team brought us
a pair of videos in
the last week or so.
After all, when
you think about it,
videos are pretty
much what they do.
First, Paris startup
Stupeflix joined
us to talk about
their platform, which
makes it easy for people and
developers to create videos.
They recently launched
Replay, allowing users
to bring their photos
and recordings together
as a single video from
their phone or tablet.
Then, from New
York, Jeff Posnick
followed up with a
helpful talk on how
you can migrate from the
YouTube data API version
two to version three, walking
us through the process using
the Google Developers console.
And with the new year, Google
Developers Academy is back.
Google Developers
expert Caesar Anton
launched a five
part series on GDL,
focusing on Google
Drive for Mexico City.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
And from Berlin,
Martin Gorner hosted
Jerome Mouton,
CTO of SnapEngage,
the company behind
live chat capabilities
for thousands of sites.
Jerome and Martin talk about
how SnapEngage has leveraged App
Engine, and how the companies
optimize cloud platform cost
through massive growth.
Nasir Khan invited
Brian Lee of Orbitz
to demonstrate how
the company integrated
with Google Wallet and
the Instant Buy API,
taking us through a
live demo of the app
and speeding up purchases.
And as usual, the Android
team has a small handful
of DevBytes for us.
Check out Daniel Pham's
weekly summary on the Android
Developers YouTube
channel, or at
developers.google.com/live/android
for the latest on mobile.
And have you ever been
running a web app only
to encounter a slow patch,
and you didn't know why?
Wouldn't you love to
have a profiler running
that can tell you
what's going on?
Now you can.
The latest Chrome Canary
introduces a sampling profiler
that you can turn
on once and then
forget about it
until you need it.
Profile all the things.
And Google Compute
Engine already
provides a reliable way
to run Apache Hadoop.
Now we've added the Google Cloud
Storage connector for Hadoop
to make it easier to use
Hadoop on Cloud platform.
To find out if
this is for you, we
have a nice Hadoop
tutorial you can try.
Check it out at
developers.google.com/hadoop.
And to make sure you never
miss a thing from the world
of Google Developers, subscribe
to Google Developers on YouTube
and check out the GDL schedule
developers.google.com/live.
I'm Louis Gray, and I'll
see you in the studio.